Coming Up..
Hello This is Sarthak & Welcome to India's first weekly News show. The Sunday Show.
The show where we discuss News with Entertainment.
New Movie of Diljit Dosanjh was released casting Hania Amir & Neeru Bajwa.
The poster of which looks first copy of The singh is king.
Not kidding, just look at it once.
But that's not the point
Controversy erupted due to a Pakistani actress Hania Amir
She shouldn't be in the movie after Pahalgam & Operation Sindoor
Due to this Diljit got ab*sed online.
You made your point but what was the need to say Halkat?
Although Diljit clarified that Movie was shot long back in February
We haven't released the movie in India & Money of producer is involved.
And art unites us all etc etc.
Now what makes it more complicated is..
Some Nationalist people alleged diljit to be an Anti National in past.
Seems he was sure about backlash that after the release he'll get abus*d
Personally I believe neither it should be released now nor in future too.
Alright Movie was shot earlier and it's not getting released in India but..
Let's admit it, you would not be able to release too.
This argument doesn't make sense When the wound is fresh & Deep, and the nation is united
When someone lose their lives then how can you give financial argument?
But you know, money isn't everything, especially when people d!e.
Let me give you personal example. Earlier we signed so many videos & a project with a coaching institute
But later some students di*d in an accident there.
So we cancelled the entire project, several videos were ready but we didn't publish.
Cancelled all the remaining videos.
Because again some people lost their lives.
I believe in such cases, even if no-one ask and you don't take a stand.
It looks insensitive and it feels immoral
Too much english.
There's a Doha of Kabir.Reading many books, the whole world d!ed, but none became truly wise.
The one who understands the two-and-a-half letters of 'love' is the one who is truly wise.
An incident from Etawah, UP was in controversy.
When villagers came to know that a religious Story teller comes from Yadav community not the Brahmin
So caught him, thr@shed him, sprinkled ur!ne for purification, shove the head.
Other side said that this guy was misbehaving with women so he was treated like this.
But when you watch the Viral video then you can understand the truth.
Later Akhilesh Yadav met with the victim & said casteism was there.
Villagers protested, Police had to take action & arrest people.
Basic news covered.
The issue is casteism.
I won't talk about whether it's Right or Wrong.
But it's there in the society.
Discrimination based on the caste is still there in the society.
And it takes place with convenience.
People those who talk about Hindu Unity on internet have mentioned their caste in the number plate of car.
It emerged out but it happens in  subtle manner.
If you visit a village then tell a Harijan surname.
Then behaviour will be changed
It's nicely depicted in gangs of wasseypur
There's a scene in which Sultan goes to meet Ramadhir.
Ramadhir's wife asked to serve food in clay utensils.
Then a background sound came which said he's musalman so use different utensils.
This is how discrimination happens in a subtle manner.
Next news is disturbing, you may skip
Kolkata's RG Kar case didn't even completed an year.
Entire nation was angry, people protested across the country. Culprits got punished.
But how much have things changed?
Same city, similar case.
A 24 year law student was r*p*d and the accused were the leader of TMC.
Again the details in the FIR so sensitive, neither I can tell Nor you can hear.
But we can comment on the entire country after taking example of Kolkata & TMC.
Crimes are happening & when the perpetrators got caught so they often found associated with Political parties.
Every time No political party takes responsibility that how such people joined their Party.
No political party takes accountability After any incident too
They could be expelled, shamed but no nothing happens. Sometimes leaders start protesting against their own gov
Next News is from Mumbai, Actress Shefali Jariwala d!ed
Initial reports hint the reason as cardiac arrest.
Now if you don't know her then she was seen in Big Boss & before that In Kanta Laga
Kanta Laga was a famous song,There won't be a single wedding where this song isn't played during the procession.
Like the video, let's move to the next news.
Like Please..why aren't you doing? Later you say that I kept begging for likes
You guys increase my BP while discussing BP news.
US travel department issued Level 2 advisory to US citizens travelling to India.
Travel Advisory as the name suggests is the advisory
Which a country issues to their citizens travelling to another country.
For example If you have to visit Saudi so avoid liqu*r, for UAE avoid sharp objects
If you have to visit Sudan then be careful from Rebel Groups.
If you want to go Pakistan then...
Why do you want to go Pakistan?
Are you Anju?
Generally Travel advisor of US is considered as a standard
It's given importance because it's superpower & economic centre.
Far ahead in information w@rfare.
R*p* Crimes are increasing rapidly in india
Hearing this, it hurt a little, right? Felt a bit ashamed? I did too.
But on the same day this news came, there was also news of a r\*pe of a French tourist.
Whenever a country talks bad about my country then I feel like replying strongly but..
I can speak about democracy index, hunger index and even press freedom index
But how can I tell about women safety?
You can recall the last week's hotel video
If a girl passes from the market so Boys stare her as if they haven't seen a girl
Guys are s**uall* depr*ssed
But as long as the v!olence is concerned so roll your advisory
A country which sees 50k d*a*hs annually due to G*n v!ol*nce don't deserve to comment on us.
We talked about this in detail in this week's fixing News episode.
The man who is R*p!ng
He knows everything, he has seen news.
His mother, sister or any other women would have told him
The one who's r*p!ng knows that it's wrong.
I'm not saying s*x education but there's lot more things which was taught along with that
You're saying everyone is aware But I don't think so
Psychological study on the culprit was done in Nirbhaya case.
He has seen women as they're there to get beat*n & to cook food.
By the way if you want to watch this entire conversation then you can become a member of our SJP
If you join then we'll discuss serious issues
You'll get early access of Sunday show
You'll get fixing News & other exclusive episodes of the channel.
We do a live monthly meeting where we talk in casual manner on serious issue
If you want to Join Sarthak Janta Party & access exclusive content so link is in Description and pinned comments
Listen to another travel related news. You'll stop coming out from home forget about city.
Proud of Bihar Tej Pratap yadav aka teju bhaiya is going to become a commercial pilot
He has qualified the selection process & his training is going to start soon
Yes Biharis Teju bhaiya is so down to earth & now he'll fly in sky.
The only thing missing was that he became a pilot but couldn’t join the army.
I don't doubt on your capabilities. If you were there so Pakistani would have started singing Vande Mataram
You'd have thrown Litti on the head of Asim Munir.
Absolutely, these people were taking you lightly
But don't take it personally. These people aren't bad by heart.
If I say so they like in a single go.
Do you? You won't become illiterate after giving thumbs up on my video.
Atleast show some Respect to me in front of Teju bhaiya
Whoever didn't like should be sit in plane with Him.
Next news is from Delhi. Petrol & Diesel won't be given on petrol pumps from July 01, 2025.
No it's not for all. Later you'll say I'm a mad guy.
For some certain vehicles
CAQM told that from 1st July
Diesel vehicles older than 10 years & Petrol vehicles older than 15 years won't be refueled in NCR
In Modi’s rule, Manmohan’s cars won’t work.
It's not alone for Delhites, if your vehicle is older so it won't be Refueled in Delhi
You think you can get it done so no it's not like that.
ANPR ( automatic number plate recognition)will read your number plate at petrol pump using camera
Will read Gujar together on windshield
Sorry that's joke from last week.
After Reading number plate it'll be detected that when did you buy the car.
Nowadays everything is automatic
It'll impact 60 Lakh vehicles in Delhi which includes 41000 two wheelers.
Personally I'm not a big fan of this idea.
Because if petrol pump won't provide then black Marketing will start.
People will take it in bottles.
And Delhites are well aware about hiding bottles.
Next news is from Indian Railways
Nowadays several changes are happening in Railways. Last week we've seen Tatkal ticket news
Now railways are going to increase Fares
New Fares Will be applicable from July 01st
For sleeper class 01 paise per km for AC 02 paisa per km
No hike for general upto 500 km
But beyond that they'll have to pay 0.5 paisa per km
If you are travelling in a sleeper class for 500 km then you need to pay 5₹ extra.
If you are travelling by AC class then it'll be 10₹ extra for 500 km
This news has two angles first thing they didn't hike much prices for general classes
They're exempted upto 500 km
You might not feel 5-10₹ more in a long journey
But it affects Many people.
At individual level 5-10₹ doesn't look big amount but..
At macro level railway will be benefited in crores annually
Next news is very interesting
People have dream to buy a house in Metro cities.
In my own experience Indian society has 2 status symbol
Car & House.
If you bought a car which means you've arrived
If you bought a house which means you're established.
People believe so
Everyone wants to buy a house but how difficult it is?
TOI analysed the data of NHB ( Nation housing Board) & urban income.
And published a report on the housing affordability in various Indian capital cities.
How much does it cost to buy a house?
On an average 1200 sqft house. It's like twice of a cricket pitch.
State capital and an average size house
How much time will it take to buy a house for richest 5 percent.
If a guy is earning 1 Lakh per month & saving 30k
Many people don't have this much of salary which you'll save.
Still you'll take 15 years in Chandigarh, 35 years in Delhi, 36 years in Bengaluru
64 years in Gurgaon and A century to buy a single house in Mumbai.
And again this is just the top 5%
These people can hope
But the remaining 95% can't even think to buy a house.
This is the reality
Let's talk about giving more money after taking more. But before that let's discuss context
Indian government provides funds to Promote regional languages like Tamil, Odia, Telugu etc
Which is used in Universities, colleges and for scholarship purposes
Report reveals that Govt spent 2500 crore to promote sanskrit in 10 years.
Which is 17 times more than the remaining 5 classical languages combined
Sanskrit was allotted 250 Cr annually whereas remaining languages were given 13 cr.
Focus on Sanskrit due to some obvious reasons which you already know
Coding is being done using sanskrit in foreign. Don't you know?
You've forgotten the sanskrit study in 8 th class
I got first rank and was rewarded with a plate.
Ok next two are the Education related news. First is for UPSC aspirants
Many aspirants prepare for UPSC but very few qualify the interview & become an officer
Mostly can't clear and leave out with the academic knowledge
To cater those aspirants, Government is bringing a strategic initiative
Which will help those students who couldn't qualify the final stage
An app has been rebranded. Earlier there was a public disclosure scheme
Which is rebranded as Pratibha setu
Data of those aspirants will be shared with Big private & Govt organisation who qualified written but failed in interview
But yes they've potential. They know that knowledge
Basically... don't feel bad ORN guys
First copy..
Sorry
Second is from Central Board of Secondary education (CBSE)
From 2026 onwards, 10 th class kids will have 2 boards exam.
One will be mandatory and the second will be optional
Let me tell you its pros and cons
During our days the performance pressure, getting good grades etc was high now it's reduced after CUET
It'll reduce more pressure. However it has a problem too
Which was told by teachers. They told that the logistical problem is..
If you conduct 2 exam in 6 months then there will be logistics issues...when kids will study for one exam
They'll have to write internal for first then external of first exam. Later they've to write internal for second & external for same
Kids will be busy in taking exams and how teachers will invigilate or teach
But listening it for the first time that teachers are afraid of exams
Next news is from our parliament
On the 50th anniversary of Emergency which was imposed by Indira Gandhi..
cabinet passed a resolution to commemorate & honour the sacrifice & courage of individuals against emergency
Why are you writing  heavy hindi? These english medium guys may d!e under its weight.
We often hear about the times of emergency, things were this or that. Our rights were snatched, it was a dark chapter
We just hear it because it's 50 year old incident.
Many of us weren't active in politics
Most of them weren't active in the world.
Infact the BJP who's commemorating emergency wasn't born then
But marking 50 years it's good time to talk about emergency
Emergency: what? Why? When?
Why do we call it dark chapter after British rule?
And that's something we'll see in this spotlight this week.
Aandhi 1975, kissa kursi ka 1978, Hazar khwahish 2003
Indu sarkar 2017 and recently emergency in 2025
These were some movies made on the backdrop of emergency
If you haven't watched then let me give the review.
Under Article 352 , The president can declare emergency when the country has Major security concern.
Mainly Due to a w*r or a confl!ct or a rebell*on
Emergency was imposed During indo china and indo pak w*r 1965 & 1971 respectively but in 1975 nothing was there
It started 2 years back in 1973. Keshavanand Bharti vs state of Kerala case
Keshavanand ji challenged Indira Gandhi's reforms
Lands were getting snatched by Government after amending right to property
SC supported Keshavanand ji and said Parliament has authority to amend the constitution
But basic structure of the constitution can not be amended
Fundamental values like federalism, democracy Can't be amended
Can be ignored.
I'm in your team Sir.
It's known as basic structure doctrine
It comes in collegium issue too, you can watch this video
Coming back to the point
This judgement was given by 13 judge bench & 6 judge supported Indira Government
One was A.N. Ray. Later he was made chief justice
She was alleged of favouritism
Now cut to June 1975
Due to Malpractices Allahabad Highcourt disqualified Indira Gandhi to contest Election
You may shock that High court stopped then PM to Fight elections
What are you talking?
Yes it happened
Allahabad Highcourt disqualified her along with Ban to contest elections for Next 6 years.
This issue reached to Supreme court & there her people were sitting so they put a partial stay on this judgement.
Indira could remain PM but wasn't allowed to vote in parliament.
This was like Toothless tiger or Tigress.
On the other hand the entire country was seeing Student protest against Unemployment & inflation.
JNU is jobless since then
On June 25, 1975 Indira Gandhi asked Prez F.A. Ahmed to declare emergency on the ground of internal disturbance
One thing you should understand that this was a fairly young country
It had been around 25-odd years since independence, Indira was the 4th or 5th Prime Minister.
Indira Gandhi was the powerful leader
It's been Said that India is indira and indira is India
Today's Aura of Modiji was ...
Indira Gandhi has her own character Arc when she was daughter of Nehru so she was known as Silent doll
When she came in power so imposed emergency and the mastermind behind emergency was this guy..
Son of Indira, Brother of Rajeev and uncle of Rahul... sanjay Gandhi
He was Pilot like Teju Bhaiya
When power of Indira was receding so two things were targeted with single thing
The way this power gone , similarly she cut the power of Media. But we'll get to that in a bit.
When her power was receding so she captured Judiciary & Rebels like JP Narayan was jailed
Few leaders in Parliament remaining in Tihar
Legislative which controls executive has controlled Judiciary & Media too
Basically Government suspended article 358 which talks about Freedom of speech, movement etc
The basic structure which we discussed in Keshavanand case, Art 359 suspends that
Here Media gone there Judiciary gone
People were arrested without warrant, you may ask to your grand parents
If 2-3 people were seen together so directly they'll land to Jail
JP Narayan, L K Advani, Atal Bihari and many other prominent leaders were jailed after imposing MISA act
Now that's known as UAPA
Stopping criticism, pressurising media, not doing press conference
Asking industrialist to Buy media houses
It used to happen that time
Where do you lose? I'm talking about media
Foreign media houses like BBC etc were asked either to compromise or leave the country
Indian media houses were not able to print the news due to Power cut at printing presses
Human connection was also cut by sanjay Gandhi along with Electricity
There were also a lot of sterilizations carried out.
This is democracy, this is dictatorship and this is emergency
Imagine if you are a power hungry politician so this is a sweet spot for you
Opposition is in jail, media & judiciary is in pocket, citizens have no Rights and you don't need to fight with anyone
It Rhymed
Since everything was controlled so Indira Gandhi revoked her election disqualification
And introduced more amendments
This was the time when several students protest took place
Leaders like Arun Jaitley and Narendra Modi emerged
Advani Ji said about media that
This all went for 21 Months
In 1977 Indira lost badly in the election and Janata party won the election which is today's BJP
New Government amended the constitution
Replaced the word internal disturbance which was misused by Indira Gandhi with ar*ed rebel!on
Emergency can be imposed today too but the steps have become very complicated
Now why is it important to discuss it now?
First I want to maintain my neutrality because I want 8 Lakh from BJP
Second is to understand the value of democracy
Powered state can snatch that easily
It's important to have an independent Judiciary and Media
Citizens go on more risk with the increasing centralisation in democracy
Infact when such instances happen in Modi Era..you know about Media
When there's conflict with Judiciary and opposition leaders get jailed
When dissent gets suppressed, action takes place on tweeting then people say it's an undeclared emergency
Now let me tell you another news so that you get context
America kept India in Electoral autocracy and I want to say 2 words about Media.
As per the ritual we read newspaper and we discuss the most interesting articles with you
Will discuss two. Which shows me the power of Data
If you have Data of any issue so you can understand nuances and help with better policy making
For example we've talked about TFR
Fertility rate is declining in India. It has come down to 2
TOI published an article which talks about why population is decreasing in India.
Why new couples aren't giving birth to more child?
40% have financial constraints
They feel they don't have much money to afford education and food expenses of the child
60% believes that they don't have medical access and reproductive autonomy
But when you map the data then you get the most interesting statistics
As the education became more accessible ..
Teenage preg*ancy..like due to child marriage many women used to become mothers in teenage
As the awareness increased in the society so the teenage pregn*ncy has reduced
As you can see in this Graph
That has been reflected in the overall fertility rate
Next is related to the health of our countrymen
Digestion related diseases have increased
Liver related. When the data was mapped so it was found that men have higher disease rate than women
Women face this problem after the age of 50
Middle age men are facing this problem at high rate
When you map area wise then you'll see North eastern states are having higher numbers
The problem is in double digit because Liver related problem increases with the consumption of meat & nonveg
North eastern states consume more meat & liquor together
This video was Viral this week. Due to sensit!ve nature of the video we had to cover it.
Vande Bharat express was going from Delhi to Bhopal
BJP MLA Rajeev Singh was traveling along with his family
He asked co passenger Raj Kishore ji to exchange the seat. He denied
Both started arguing & Ego of MLA was hurt
He called and 10-15 go0ns boarded at Jhansi station
Go0ns did the same job with Raj Kishore ji which was done to Raj Kapoor in The film Shree 420
How will you become a go0n ?Vande bharat trains have camera.
Interestingly when the video went viral so he filed a complaint against Victim for misbehave and mental harrasm*nt
My fist started paining after beat!ng him my lord.
When this issue gain traction so BJP did the same which they do everytime when their leaders cross the lines
Nothing
A show cause notice was sent & asked explanation within 7 days.
Public isn't that fool in this country
Video is there, eye witnesses are available take action. What will you achieve with show cause notice?
Sorry shaktiman
Last week yoga day was celebrated and yoga sessions were celebrated across the nation.
I also did. From 6 AM to 11 AM
Letaasan. It's tough sometimes your back develop stiffness
This video from Vizag went viral
After learning spirituality in Yoga people started stealing yoga mats
Not 1,2 or 3 . People were running with the entire bundle
This was the real excercise
Theft must be understood at one point
People buy blanket from train and use at home
What would you do with Yoga mat? If you know then it'll be already there or if you wanna learn then 1 is enough
Will you roll Rotis under this?
Before the next news there's a question. Do you have any ey problem?
Redness, dryness, irritation?
Blink your eyes once
There's no sponsor but an interesting solution
An interesting eye care routine is getting viral
Ur!ne eye wash
Collect your mid stream ur!ne. What's this mid stream ur!ne?
Is it Chenab river?
What do you want?
The first ur!ne of the morning
I should do this after getting up in morning?
I'm fan of the fact which says the very first ur!ne of the day
Purity matters
We can't smell and seems she had tasted
Entire quality test is going on. It should be first of the day, odour less, colour less
Bisleri guy mad get mad with such quality check
So do we have to wash hands or not madam?
If someone Speak things in english , things get white washed
Next news is from Mumbai. Recently Prada launched their summer collection 2026
Controversy erupted when a Kolhapuri slipper was among the products
The cost was 1.25 Lakh Rupees
Local things after getting foreign seals are getting sold to locals
And nothing big that a luxury brand is stealing local artisans work & selling as their own work
We've seen this a lot. Sometimes they sell hawai slippers, sometimes that bus stand Bag in Lakhs
Rich people get.. after buying these things
An uncontrollable urge to spend money.
But a thing worth Rs 700 in 1.25 Lakhs
If my dad sees that the slippers he wears while riding his bike are being sold for more than the bike itself.
he'll b*at me with the same slippers.
First, rich people reject poor people's things with disgust, then romanticize them and buy them at high prices.
Pan Masala jacket, bathroom slippers, Kolhapuri slippers
The day isn't far when a luxury product will be launched
And will se selling Cow dung cakes
Let's see the most bizarre news of the week in the next segment
There was a Don, police of 11 countries were searching for him
And she's lady don, police of 11 states are finding her.
This chennai girl fell in one sided love.
When the Guy married to another woman so her heart got broken
And she thought to take revenge. She visited dark web and created fake mail id on the name of boy
And she threate*ed 11 different cities in 11 states using that mail id.
School, college, metro station and cricket stadium too
Toom revenge of male from mail
She's woman and She can do anything. What does it mean?
This is the extreme version of ordering products on COD.
Interesting thing was it's one sided love
If it were two sided then...
To whom are you asking?
Brother to make a qualified personality.... there's no girl in our group
If i say something against a girl so..
I'll not be able to come out from office
Feeling scared.
You shouldn't go outside the office and road too
Because others get scared
Then give me work from home. No
Next news is interesting and it's from Rampur,UP.
Shakil fixed wedding of his son with a girl
Hold on, it gets better
But before the marriage that girl eloped with the father of her husband
Yes bro he eloped with his daughter in law
He wanted to become father in law and ended up with daddy
Teena and Babuji from Mirzapur
He was the father of 6 kids
When his wife was objecting his relationship with his son's fiance so he be*t his wife.
Shakti Kapoor in the role of Aloknath
Police would be confused about imposing section on Shakil Bro
Adult*ry, domestic viol*n*e or Child marriage
Another news came from Jamui, Bihar. Where a woman gets married to her Nephew
What's happening? Mother in law is eloping with Son in law. Father in law is eloping with daughter in law
Aunt is eloping with Nephew
People are running with the family members.
Hey God what all I'm seeing..
Have you seen last Sunday show? If not then watch that
Father organized an item dance party to the whole village when his son cracked NEET exam.
Same news came from Taiwan where Mother organized a Pole dance party to his son on passing highschool
She didn't do, she organized
It happened to pass highschool, if he were passed college so his mom would have gifted Epstein island
Sunday Sabha
Dhruv Bro we're uploading all the memes from  tomorrow Onwards. I know you're enjoying but can't upload all memes
Otherwise it'll become Monday show
We've uploaded an extended version of this to the members of Sarthak Janta Party
To Join the party, Link is given in pinned comments and description
Anyways this was the episode. If you like then ask 3 people to subscribe
Ask those 3 to spread this chain.
Good content should reach to others. You can like the video too
Feel free to Dislike. Discuss your opinion in comments section
You can discuss random opinion by using #SundaySoch
We'll give our opinion on your opinion, which is basically how the social media works
I'll meet you next week with more news with entertainment
Till then take care, Bye.
And don't forget to Like Subscribe and Share